```
 _ _ _     _
| (_) |__ | | __ _  ___
| | | '_ \| |/ _` |/ __|
| | | |_) | | (_| | (__
|_|_|_.__/|_|\__,_|\___|
```

✝️ This software was written in the name of the __Father__ and of the __Son__ and of the __Holy Spirit__; Amen.

# About
liblac is the Linear Algebra Library (written in C). This is purely a personal project and is not
at all intended for commercial or production use. No serious attempts at optimization have been
made. If you are looking for a more robust linear algebra library written in C, please check out
[GLM](https://github.com/g-truc/glm).

# Philosophy
The reason I created this library was primarily for learning purposes. To complement this, I've
sprinkled in additional comments explaining some of the more complex concepts on top of the vanilla
API docs generated by Doxygen. The library is minimally obfuscated at the expense of performance.
There are certainly much more efficient algorithms for doing vector and matrix mathematics, especially
with modern hardware features such as SIMD. These tend to make code less portable, however, which
was a minor consideration as well. You will notice that the APIs are written in a functional manner
(although not purely functional). This is to say that the mutation of input parameters is generally
avoided, except for the output parameter. This places the responsibility of managing resource ownership
on you, the maintainer, not on the library. Each API function is named following a specific
convention. Each API function begins with lac_, which is intentionally done to reduce namespace
collisions and to differentiate from other libraries. Additionally, each API function follows a
verb-subject structure. This makes it easy to anticipate the names of similar functionality. For
example, given that there is a function called lac_add_vec3(), is follows that there exists a function
called lac_subtract_vec3(). Parameters are ordered as follows:

1. First class output data members
2. First class input data members
3. Second class input data members

First class data members are directly related to the subject of the function i.e. the operands of the
operation. Second class data members include parameters that affect the operation in some way, but
that are only loosely related to the subject. Examples include scaling constants, angles for rotation,
boolean flags, etc.

# Installation
In order to use liblac for your application(s) run the following command:

```console
sudo make install
```

This installs both the shared object/dll and archive/static versions of the library in
/usr/lib/ by default. If you want to change the installation directory, run the following
command instead:

```console
sudo make LIB_DIR=/full/path/to/install/ install
```

If you want to simply build the binaries but not copy them to an installation directory,
run the following command instead:

```console
sudo make all
```

This will place both the shared object/dll and archive/static versions of the library in
the repo's bin directory.

In order to link with the shared object version of the library, it will need to be placed in a location where
the linker (traditionally ld) will find it. By default, ld looks in /usr/ and /usr/lib/, which is where the
make install Makefile rule places it by default. If you opted to place it somewhere else, you'll need to
ensure that the path either exists in the $LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable, or that the shared object is
build using the -Wl,-rpath=</path/to/so_file.so> flag. You'll need to also use the -L flag to specify where the
library exists when compiling, as well as -llac to link with the library.
